저는 학교에 갔어요 I went to school 
아버지는 서울에 갔어요 My father went to soul 
제가 진구의  집에 갔어요 I went to a friend's house 
개가 여기에 왔어요 The dog came here
남동생이 화요일에 서울에 왔어요 My younger brother came to seoul on tuesday
묵요일에 여둉생의짐에갔어요 I went to my younger sisters house on saturday
제 여자친구가 토요일에 편의점에 갔어요 My girlfriend went to the convenience store on saturday

저는 금요일에 태국에 왔어요 I came to thailand on friday
매일 가요 (This is the present tense) I go everyday
내일가요 (This is future tense) I will go tomorrow
언제 가요? (Future tense) When will you go 
언제 한국에 와요? When are you coming to Korea? 
금요일에 가요. I'm going on Friday 
수요일에 어디에 가요? Where are you going on Wednesday? 
학교에 가요 I will go to school 
내일 사람이 말을 거예요 There will be many people tomorrow
오늘은 집에 있을 거예요. I will be at home today 
내일은 추울 거예요? Will it be cold tomorrow?  
금요일은 더울 거예요 Friday will be hot
시험이 어려울 거예요 The test will be hard
시험이 쉬울 거예요 The test will be easy 
내일은 치울 거예요 Tomorrow will probably be cold 
이 김밥은 매울 거예요 The gimbap might be hot 
시험이 어려울 거예요 The test might be hard 
내일 비가 올 거예요 It will rain tomorrow
지금 눈이 와요 It's snowing now 
화요일에 비가 왔어요 It rained on Tuesday 
어제 눈이 왔어요 It snowed on Tuesday 
매주 (Every weeK) in front of any week day or 매년 (every year) 
매주 금요일에 서울에 가요 I go to Seoul very friday 
매주 일요일에 교회에 가요 I go to church every sunday 
매년 삼월에 병원에 가요 I go to the hospital every March 
매년 오월이 더워요 Its hot every May 
이다 -> (Past tense with 받침) 있어요 -> (past tense without 받침) 였어요 
아니다 -> (Past tense with 받침) 아니었어요 -> (past tense without 받침) 아니었어요 
알마였오 how much was it? 
전 원 이었어요 It was 1000 won 
언제 였어요? When was it? 
토요일이었어요 It was Saturday 
매일 학교에 가요? Do you go to school everyday? 
네, 매일 학교에 가요. Yes I go to school everyday 
아니요, 매주 월요일에 가요 No, I go to school every monday 
네, 매일 학교에 가요 Yes, I go to school everyday 
언제 서울에 와요? When do you come to Seoul?
내일 가요 I'll go tomorrow
저는 매일 화요일에 서울에 가요 I go to Seoul every Tuesday 
저는 매달 서울에 갈 거예요 I will go to Seoul every month 
어제 날씨가 주웠어요? Was the weather cold yesterday? 
네, 추웠어요 Yes it was cold 
아니요, 더웠어요 No it was hot 

175 

지난주 last week
이번주 this week
다음주 next week
짐난달 last month
이번달 next month
지난해 last year
이번해 next year
 비행기표 airline ticket
부모님 parents
많이 a lot
진구가 많아 있어요 I have a lot of friends
한국에 많이  갔어요 I went to Korea a lot
파티에 진구가 많이 왔어요 Many friends came to the party
You can add 같이 (verb) to do a (verb) together
(somebody) 하고 같이 (verb) : to do a (verb) together with someone
친구와 갔어요 I went with a friend ( 와/ 과) If the person you are doing something with has a 받침 then use 과 and if not use 와
친구하고 갔어요 You can also use 하고 which never changes and is always the same if or if not there is a 받침
랑 / 이람 If the person you are doing something with has a 받침 use 어람 and if not use 랑
친구랑 갔어요 I went with a friend
----- ------ ----- ----- ------ 
에둥생이 랑 같이 갔어요 I went together with my younger sister
누나하고 영국에 갈 거예요 I will go to England with my older sister
부모님하고 식당에 갔어요 I went to a restaurant with my parents
유월에 친구랑 태국에 갈 거예요 I will go to Thailand with a friend in June
와/과, 하고, 랑 / 이랑 also mean "and"
김밥하고 김치가 맛있어요
개랑 고양이가 너무 귀여워요 Dogs and cats are very cute
조지 씨하고 김민수 씨하고 가게에 같이 갈 거예요 I will go to the store (together) with George and Minsu Kim 

매일 김밥을 먹어요 I eat gimbap every day
어제 사과 세 개 먹었어요 I ate 3 apples yesterday
제 오빠는 귤을 목을 거예요  My brother will eat a tangerine
약을 먹을 거예요 I will take some medicine
언제 약을 먹었어요? When did you take your medicine?
국을 먹었어요 I had soup
(item) 을/를 마시다 (To drink an item)
매일 차와 커피를 마셔요 I drink coffee and tea everyday
지난주에 주스를 많이 마셨어요 I drank a lot of juice last week
지난달에 친구랑 맥주를 많이 마셨어요 I drank a lot of beer with my friend last month
오늘 밤에 물을 많이 마실 거예요 I will drink a lot of water tonight
다음 주에 저와 영국에 갈 거예요?  Are you going to England with me?
네, 갈 거예요. Yes I will go
아니요. 저는 다음 주에 일본에 가요. No I will go to Japan next week
비항기표를 벌써어요? Did you already an airline ticket?
네, 지난주 월요일에 샀어요 Yes I bought it last Monday
아니요. 오늘 살거에요 No I will buy it today
몇 시에 부산에 갈 거예요? 다섯시 오십분에 갈 거예요. 누구하고 갈 거예요? 부모님하고 갈 거예요
What time are you going to Busan? I will go at 5:15. Who are you going with? I am going with parents
이 커피 마셨어요? 네, 마셨어요. 미커피는 제 것이었어요. 죄송해요
Did you drink this coffee? Yes, I did. This coffee was mine. Sorry
어제 피티에 누구랑 갔어요? 친구랑 갔어요 대구랑 갔어요. 재미있어요? 네, 아주
재미있어요
Who did you go to the party with yesterday? I went with a friend. Was it fun? Yes it was very fun.
수요일에 텔레비전을 봤어요 Did you watch TV on Wednesday
네, 많이 봤어요. Yes I watched a lot!
뭐 봤어요? What do you watch?
런닝맨 봤어요 I watched Running Man.

좋아하다, 좋아하세요? 좋아해요 
싫어하다, 싫어해요, 싫어하세요? 
안좋아하다, 안좋아해요, 안좋아하세요?
싫어하지 않다, 싫어하지 않아요 
아주, 엄정, 나무 
그다지 :: not much 

오늘은 무슨 요일이에요? What day of the week is it today?
일요일이에요 Its Sunday
교회에 갈 거예요? Are you going to go to church?
네, 매 주 일요 일에 가요 Yes I go every Sunday
책상 위에 떡이 있었어요? Was there rice cake on the desk?
아니요, 없었어요. No there was not
그럼, 뭐가 이었어? Well then, what was there
책이 있었어요 There were books
어제 은행에 갔어요? Did you go to the bank yesterday?
아니요, 수요일에 갔어요 No I went on Wednesday
언제 서점에 갈 거예요? When will you go to the bookstore?
내일 갈 거예요 I will go tomorrow
내일 콜라 두 병을 살 거예요 I will buy 2 bottles of cola tomorrow.
제 어머니의 피자는 차가워요 My mother's pizza is cold
제 어머니는 가방이 없어요 My mother does not have a  bag
콜라 한 병과 물 세 잔을 죽을 주세요 2 bottles of cola and 3 cups of water please








